---
title: "What does it mean to be a topology?"
date: 2021-07-17
draft: false
tags: ["topology"]

---

A topology on a set is a way of determining which subsets are open, closed, neither, or both. Elements of [open sets]({{< ref open_sets.md >}}) can be thought of as being "close" in a way that isn't dependent on notions of distance. If $X$ is a set and $\mathcal{T}$ is a topology on $X$, then we call $(X, \mathcal{T})$ a **topological space**.

## Definition

Let $X$ be a set. Then $\mathcal{T}$ is a **topology** on $X$ if and only if $\mathcal{T}$ is a collection of subsets of $X$ such that:

#### 1. $\emptyset \in \mathcal{T}$
The empty set is always an element of the topology (that is, the empty set is open).

#### 2. $X \in \mathcal{T}$
The set $X$, the largest subset, is always an element of the topology (that is, the set $X$ is always open).

#### 3. if $U,V \in \mathcal{T}$, then $U \cap V \in \mathcal{T}$
The intersection of two open sets (two elements of the topology) is open. This can be extended to show that the finite intersection of open sets is open, but the infinite intersection of open sets is not necessarily open. 

#### 4. if $\{U_\alpha\}_{\alpha \in \lambda}$ is a collection of elements of $\mathcal{T}$, then $\bigcup_{\alpha \in \lambda} U_\alpha \in \mathcal{T}$. 
The (possibly infinite) union of open sets is always open. Even an uncountably infinite union of open sets is open. 

## Properties
If $X$ is a set, the subsets $X$ and $\emptyset$ are both [open]({{< ref open_sets.md >}}) and [closed]({{< ref closed_sets.md >}}) under any topology $\mathcal{T}$.

## Examples
Given a set $X$, the following are all topologies on $X$:

- The [discrete topology]({{< ref discrete_topology.md >}}) contains *all* subsets of $X$.
- The [indiscrete topology]({{< ref indiscrete_topology.md >}}) contains *only* $\emptyset$ and $X$.
- The [finite complement topology]({{< ref finite_complement_topology.md >}}) contains all subsets of $X$ that have a finite complement. 
- The [countable complement topology]({{< ref countable_complement_topology.md >}}) contains all subsets of $X$ that have a countable complement.

Taking $X = \mathbb{R}$, the following are topological spaces: 

- In the [standard topology]({{< ref standard_topology.md >}}) on $\mathbb{R}$, a set $U$ is open if and only if for each point $p \in U$, there exists an $\varepsilon > 0$ such that $$(p - \varepsilon, p + \varepsilon) \subset U.$$
- The [lower limit topology]({{< ref lower_limit_topology.md >}}) on $\mathbb{R}$, also called the Sorgenfrey Line, is generated by the [basis]({{< ref top_basis.md >}}) of sets of the form $[a, b) = \{x \in \mathbb{R} \mid a \leq x < b\}$ for $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$.
